Banshee
Will target only one player at a time. Has a distinctive wail on the Parabolic Microphone.
orbs, fingerprints, d.o.t.s.
Demon
Can initiate hunts more often. Crucifix effectiveness is increased to 5m against one.
freezing, fingerprints, writing
Deogen
Always knows where the player is during a hunt and moves very fast when going to their location. Moves very slowly when near its victim.
spirit box, writing, d.o.t.s.
Goryo
Can only be seen interacting with d.o.t.s. through a camera when nobody is nearby. Tends to wander around less.
emf 5, fingerprints, d.o.t.s.
Hantu
Lower temperatures allow the Hantu to move faster. Warmer areas slow the Hantu's movement.
orbs, freezing, fingerprints
Jinn
Travels at faster speeds if its victim is far away. Cannot use its ability if the site's fuse box is off.
emf 5, freezing, fingerprints
Mare
Has an increased chance to attack in the dark. Turning the lights on will reduce the chance of an attack.
orbs, spirit box, writing
Moroi
Moves noticeably faster at low player sanity and can make players lose sanity quicker than usual while investigating. Smudge sticks blind the ghost for longer during hunts.
spirit box, writing, freezing
Myling
Produces quieter sounds during a hunt. Produces paranormal sounds more frequently.
emf 5, fingerprints, writing
Obake
May leave fingerprints that disappear quicker. Has a small chance of leaving six-fingered handprints.
emf 5, orbs, fingerprints
Oni
Increased activity in general. More visible during hunts.
emf 5, freezing, d.o.t.s.
Onryo
A flame extinguishing can cause an Onryo to attack. The presence of flames reduces the Onryo's ability to attack.
orbs, spirit box, freezing
Phantom
Looking at a Phantom will lower the player's sanity considerably. Taking a photo of the Phantom will cause it to briefly disappear.
spirit box, fingerprints, d.o.t.s.
Poltergeist
Capable of throwing multiple objects at once. Becomes powerless with no throwables nearby.
spirit box, fingerprints, writing
Raiju
Moves faster near electrical devices. Disrupts electronic equipment from further away when it hunts.
emf 5, orbs, d.o.t.s.
Revenant
Can travel significantly faster if a player is spotted during a hunt. Moves very slowly when not chasing a player.
orbs, freezing, writing
Shade
Being shy makes it more difficult to locate and obtain evidence. Less likely to hunt if people are nearby.
emf 5, freezing, writing
Spirit
None. Smudge sticks are more effective, preventing a hunt for longer.
emf 5, spirit box, writing
Thaye
Entering the location makes it active, defensive and agile. Becomes slower and less active over time.
orbs, writing, d.o.t.s.
The Mimic
Can mimic the abilities and traits of other ghosts. Will present Ghost orbs as a secondary evidence.
spirit box, fingerprints, freezing
The Twins
Either Twin may start a hunt, though not at the same time. Will often interact with the environment at the same time.
emf 5, spirit box, freezing
Wraith
Does not leave UV footprints after stepping in salt. Will become more active if it steps in salt.
emf 5, spirit box, d.o.t.s.
Yokai
Talking near the Yokai will anger it, increasing the chance to attack. Can only hear voices close to it during a Hunt.
orbs, spirit box, d.o.t.s.
Yurei
Has a stronger effect on sanity. Smudging the Yurei will reduce how often it wanders.
orbs, freezing, d.o.t.s.